Data Engineer | Azure Databricks | PySpark | SQL | Cloud Data Pipelines

About Me Data Engineer with 4+ year of hands-on experience mainly focused troubleshooting and building reliable cloud data pipelines on Azure Databricks.I came to data engineering from 8+ years as a software engineer — wored across Hadoop ecosystems. Skilled in Spark, and Hive, with hands-on experience managing production clusters and resolving critical outages. Led technical teams and drove major data migrations, including India's Aadhaar project. 

🚀 Portfolio (Pinned Repository):
👉 Data Engineering & Analytics Portfolio
A curated collection of industry-ready, end-to-end data engineering and analytics projects.

What I'm working on Building end-to-end lakehouse pipelines for clients — ingesting from APIs, SQL databases, and vendor files into medallion architecture, with real attention to data quality and incremental processing.

Currently working toward the DP-700 Microsoft Fabric Data Engineer Associate certification.

🔹 Current Focus

Designing modern data platforms and end-to-end data pipelines with strong emphasis on scalability, data quality, and analytics consumption, primarily on Azure, while remaining cloud-agnostic.

🧰 Tech Stack (Core)

Cloud & Data Platforms: Azure · Azure Data Factory · Azure Data Lake Storage (Gen2) · Azure Databricks
Data Engineering: ETL / ELT Pipelines · Medallion Architecture · SQL · Python · Data Modeling · Data Quality & Validation
Engineering & Collaboration: Git · GitHub · Version Control · Documentation

🎯 Roles of Interest

Data Engineer
Azure Data Engineer
Cloud Data Engineer

🔹 Certifications:

■ 2017 ITIL Foundation level(Simplilearn)
■ 2018 Big Data Hadoop Admin(Simplilearn)
■ 2018 Big Data Architect(Simplilearn)
■ 2025 AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate(Udemy)
■ 2025 AWS infrastructure as a code with Terraform (Udemy)
■ 2025 Databricks Fundamentals from Databricks.
■ 2025 Generative AI Fundamentals from Databricks.
■ 2025Azure Databricks Platform Architect from Databricks.
■ 2026 Build Data Pipelines with Lakeflow Spark Declarative
Pipelines from Databricks.

🤝 Let’s Connect

🔗 LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/lingthoi-sapam-30905316
💻 GitHub: https://github.com/AmeeJoshi-MCA
